.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Submit a feature request or bug report

- [ ] This is a feature request
- [ ] This is a bug report
- [ ] This request isn't a duplicate of an [existing issue](https://github.com/roots/sage/issues)
- [ ] I've read the [docs](https://roots.io/sage/docs) and [NPM Debugging Guidelines post](https://discourse.roots.io/t/npm-debugging-guidelines-failed-npm-install-bower-install-or-gulp-build-read-this/3060) and followed them (if applicable)
- [ ] This is not a personal support request that should be posted on the [Roots Discourse](https://discourse.roots.io/c/sage) forums

Replace any `X` with your information.

---

**What is the current behavior?**

X


**What is the expected or desired behavior?**

X

---

## Bug report

(delete this section if not applicable)

**Please provide steps to reproduce, including full log output:**

X

**Please describe your local environment:**

WordPress version: X

OS: X

NPM/Node version: X

**Where did the bug happen? Development or remote servers?**

X


**Is there a related [Discourse](https://discourse.roots.io/) thread or were any utilized (please link them)?**

X

---

## Feature Request

(delete this section if not applicable)

**Please provide use cases for changing the current behavior:**

X

**Other relevant information:**

X

Commit message:

adds contributing to roots guidelines to GitHub issue template (#1710)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Submit a feature request or bug report

- [ ] I've read the [guidelines for Contributing to Roots Projects](https://github.com/roots/guidelines/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] This is a feature request
- [ ] This is a bug report
- [ ] This request isn't a duplicate of an [existing issue](https://github.com/roots/sage/issues)
- [ ] I've read the [docs](https://roots.io/sage/docs) and [NPM Debugging Guidelines post](https://discourse.roots.io/t/npm-debugging-guidelines-failed-npm-install-bower-install-or-gulp-build-read-this/3060) and followed them (if applicable)
- [ ] This is not a personal support request that should be posted on the [Roots Discourse](https://discourse.roots.io/c/sage) forums

Replace any `X` with your information.

---

**What is the current behavior?**

X


**What is the expected or desired behavior?**

X

---

## Bug report

(delete this section if not applicable)

**Please provide steps to reproduce, including full log output:**

X

**Please describe your local environment:**

WordPress version: X

OS: X

NPM/Node version: X

**Where did the bug happen? Development or remote servers?**

X


**Is there a related [Discourse](https://discourse.roots.io/) thread or were any utilized (please link them)?**

X

---

## Feature Request

(delete this section if not applicable)

**Please provide use cases for changing the current behavior:**

X

**Other relevant information:**

X
